{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1344\cocoasubrtf720
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hermann Zapf is a German designer who designed a variety of highly regarded typefaces including Optima and Palatino. The I particularly enjoy the shape of the break in the loop of Palatino\'92s capital P, as well as the subtle scalloping in Optima\'92s lack of straight contours. He also worked on the Zapfino typeface, which employs heavy use of the additional AAT (Apple Advanced Typography) technologies within font files, which allow for contextual glyph replacement and makes for a more varied document. Indeed, an entire table in the TrueType font file format is named the \'91zapf\'92 table after him. Because of Zapfino\'92s large embellishments, it is often used to test layouts for robustness against overlapping glyphs or overflowing contours, which is something I do in my day job.\
\
Not only are Zapf\'92s creations impressive, but the company he kept is incredibly inspiring. He taught at the Rochester Institute of Technology, my alma mater, for 10 years, where he focused on digital letterform design. One of his students at RIT went on to design Lucida Grande, which was the system font in Macintosh OS X for 9 years. In addition, Zapf worked on AMS Euler with Donald Knuth, who is the world\'92s foremost programming expert and has been one of my personal heroes for years.}